# AWS Lambda

This project contains various sample lambdas which interacts with different event sources (ApiGateway, DynamoDB, Scheduled Lambdas, S3 etc.). All the information about the lambdas and the attached event sources are defined in `template-lLambda name>.yaml` files 

## Lambdas
#### ApiGateway: 
This Lambda will showcase use case of attaching lambda to ApiGateway endpoints. This lambda will service two methods GET and POST for `<ApiGateway end point>/hello` resource. The information about the lambda and the ApiGateway event is defined in `template-apigateway.yaml`

## Development Environment
For deploying the lambdas we need AWS CLI & SAM CLI tools. Please follow [this](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-install.html) to install SAM tools. After installing AWS CLI tools, please configure your AWS access key and secret by running `aws configure` command.

Two ways to deploy your lambda to your aws account.
1. Execute `deploy.sh` which will ask you to choose the lambda to be deployed and follow the further instructions. 
2. If you don't want to use `deploy.sh` script (running on windows?), then use below commands
    ```bash
    sam build --template-file <templatefile corresponding to your lambda>
    sam deploy --guided --capabilities CAPABILITY_IAM
    ```
In both of the above deployment steps, you will be asked about this information
* **Stack Name**: The name of the stack to deploy to CloudFormation. This should be unique to your account and region, and a good starting point would be something matching your project name.
* **AWS Region**: The AWS region you want to deploy your app to.
* **Confirm changes before deploy**: If set to yes, any change sets will be shown to you before execution for manual review. If set to no, the AWS SAM CLI will automatically deploy application changes.
* **Allow SAM CLI IAM role creation**: Many AWS SAM templates, including this example, create AWS IAM roles required for the AWS Lambda function(s) included to access AWS services. By default, these are scoped down to minimum required permissions. To deploy an AWS CloudFormation stack which creates or modified IAM roles, the `CAPABILITY_IAM` value for `capabilities` must be provided. If permission isn't provided through this prompt, to deploy this example you must explicitly pass `--capabilities CAPABILITY_IAM` to the `sam deploy` command.
* **Save arguments to samconfig.toml**: If set to yes, your choices will be saved to a configuration file inside the project, so that in the future you can just re-run `sam deploy` without parameters to deploy changes to your application.

You can find your API Gateway Endpoint URL in the output values displayed after deployment. You can use this endpoint url to invoke the methods (GET, POST etc.) requests defined in event source.

To test the lambda, you can invoke it directly with a test event. An event is a JSON document that represents the input that the function receives from the event source. Test events are included in the `events` folder in this project. Inorder to run functions locally, you need to install docker. Please click [here](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) to install docker.

Run functions locally and invoke them with the `sam local invoke` command.

```bash
AWS$ sam local invoke ApiGateway --event events/apigateway-event.json
```

The SAM CLI can also emulate your application's API. Use the `sam local start-api` to run the API locally on port 3000.

```bash
AWS$ sam local start-api
AWS$ curl http://localhost:3000/
```

## Fetch, tail, and filter Lambda function logs

To simplify troubleshooting, SAM CLI has a command called `sam logs`. `sam logs` lets you fetch logs generated by your deployed Lambda function from the command line. In addition to printing the logs on the terminal, this command has several nifty features to help you quickly find the bug.

`NOTE`: This command works for all AWS Lambda functions; not just the ones you deploy using SAM.

```bash
AWS$ sam logs -n <lambda name> --stack-name AWS --tail
```

You can find more information and examples about filtering Lambda function logs in the [SAM CLI Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-logging.html).

## Unit tests

Tests are defined in the `<Lambda>/src/test` folder in this project.

```bash
AWS$ cd <Lambda>
<Lambdsa>$ gradle test
```

## Cleanup

To delete the sample application that you created, use the AWS CLI. Assuming you used your project name for the stack name, you can run the following:

```bash
aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name <Name of the stack>
```